Real World Scenario For an IT Analyst: (JAN - DEC 2024)

Python Script to analyze, read, and report on the expense data used in excel to manage costs of the department.

Brainstorming solutions to improve budgeting and spending.

Lastly, give boss a clear and actionable insight on what's going on and recommendations to help.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Questions My Boss Has asked me :

Which Months went over budget?
According to a monthly spending chart i made "Jan, May, Jun, and July" are over the budget of $20,000 per month.

Which categories are the most expensive?
 The top 5 categories are Hardware, software, cloud services, support services, and software. The most expensive category is "Support Services".

Are the recurring costs we can negotiate to improve saving ?
It all depends on what is of upmost importance to you and your company. "Can you tell me what is of the least importance ?" I can't answer that question because you haven't told me what you believe to be of least importance to cut recurring cost.


Which vendors or purchase could be consolidated?
In my opinion Hardware and accessories can 
be consolidated into one because they are of the same distinctions. "What o you think?"
Boss : Responds with answer....




GOALS WANTED BY MY BOSS IS :

Keep spending under $20k/Month

We can keep spending under that amount by ...... {What do you think we could cut and what do we use least in our company?}

Plan for high spending months in advance for newer hardware

..........

How to suggest bulk buying or annual billing costs:

..........

He also wants to tag and track all purchases by category to build dashboards

We can tag all purchases by making sure every spreadsheet is up to date with inventory management.

Where is my money going into mostly ?

Most of the money is going to support services. " Customer and support services are of the most important to the company as it will ensure they will come back if everything they wanted was met."






